Add blog post about gitsign cache (#1)
trustification/trustification.github.io: _posts/2022-12-05-gitsign-cache.md

---

> title: "gitsign cache"

Reviewer: This title will appear on the front page, so probably ought to be something like "How to Configure a Gitsign Cache" or some such.

Author: Ah I did not think about that, I'll update shortly. Thanks!

date: 2022-12-05
author: Daniel Bevenius
---

This post contains the steps for setting up
[gitsign-credential-cache](https://github.com/sigstore/gitsign/tree/main/cmd/gitsign-credential-cache).
which is useful if one has to perform multiple commits in short succession, or
when doing a rebase.

> It can be somewhat frustrating to having the browser open for every single

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It can be somewhat frustrating to have the browser open for every single
```

Author: I'll fix this. Thanks

> commit. For these situations a cache can be used which is can be enabled using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
commit. For these situations a cache can be enabled using
```

Author: I'll fix this. Thanks

```
And we can start it manually using:
```console
$ systemctl --user start gitsign.service
```

Check that it has started successfully:
```console
$ systemctl --user status gitsign.service 
● gitsign.service - Gitsign Credentials Cache
     Loaded: loaded (/home/danielbevenius/.config/systemd/user/gitsign.service; enabled; vendor preset: disabled)
     Active: active (running) since Mon 2022-11-28 11:27:47 CET; 2min 35s ago
       Docs: https://github.com/sigstore/gitsign
   Main PID: 177444 (gitsign-credent)
     CGroup: /user.slice/user-1000.slice/user@1000.service/app.slice/gitsign.service
             └─ 177444 /home/danielbevenius/go/bin/gitsign-credential-cache

Nov 28 11:27:47 localhost.localdomain systemd[1295]: Started Gitsign Credentials Cache.
Nov 28 11:27:47 localhost.localdomain gitsign-credential-cache[177444]: /home/danielbevenius/.cache/.sigstore/gitsig>
```
And we then need to add the following environment variable:
```console
$ export GITSIGN_CREDENTIAL_CACHE=~/.cache/.sigstore/gitsign/cache.sock
```
After this we should be able to commit a first time and have our credentials

> stored and the following commit should be done without a browser "popup".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
stored. The following commit can then be made without a browser "popup".
```

Author: I'll fix this. Thanks
